# Programming in Clojure

We are going to extend a Java system, which must be able to start Pig,
Hive and Hadoop jobs.  As a programmer with 19 years experience with
C++, I have no interest to learn Java.  I like Go, but I found no way
to invoke Java API from Go.  So I am going to retreat to Clojure, a
Lisp dialect, which I am expecting as powerful as Lisp, the most
expressive language ever.

This article is my learning note of Clojure, aiming at learn it as
fast as possible to start development in production.


## The Compiler

Clojure is a Java package.  We can checkout the source code from
Github and build it using Maven:

    git clone https://github.com/clojure/clojure.git
    cd clojure
    mvn -T 6 install

This will give you `target/clojure-1.7.0-master-SNAPSHOT.jar`.  When
we run `clojure.main` in this pacakge, we got a REPL:

    java -cp target/clojure-1.7.0-master-SNAPSHOT.jar clojure.main

## The Hello World Program

Write a hello world program, say `/tmp/app.hello.clj`:

    (ns helloworld (:gen-class))
    (defn -main [& args] (println "Hello world!"))

We can build this program from within the REPL:

    cd /tmp
    java -cp ~/Projects/clojure/target/clojure-1.7.0-master-SNAPSHOT.jar clojure.main
    => (compile 'app.hello)

If `compile` prompts error messages like

    CompilerException java.io.IOException: No such file or directory, compiling:(app/hello.clj:1:1)

you need to create a directory name `classes` in the current directory:

    mkdir /tmp/classes

and compile the program again.  This should give you
`/tmp/classes/app/hello.class`.  You can run this program:

    java -cp ~/Projects/clojure/target/clojure-1.7.0-master-SNAPSHOT.jar:/tmp/classes app.hello

which should print

    Hello world!

## The Build System

Above build procedure is unbearablly complex.  Usually people build
Clojure projects using Leiningen.   To install Leiningen on Mac OS X:

    brew update && brew doctor && brew install leiningen

Then you can create a project using Leiningen

    cd /tmp
    lein new app hello

This creates a directory `hello` containing a template program.  You
can build it using

    cd hello
    lein uberjar

This creates `/tmp/hello/target/hello-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar`.
You can run it as:

    java -cp /tmp/hello/target/uberjar/hello-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar hello.core

Or, a simple form is

    cd /tmp/hello
    lein run

## The Editor

Most Clojure programmer use Emacs.  You can use Homebrew to install
Emacs 24 on Mac OS X:

    brew install --cocoa --srgb emacs

Then we can use package `package` to install Clojure related plugins.
In Emacs, type `C-x list-packages`, you will see a list of packages.
Type `i` to mark for installation, `u` for unmark, `d` for uninstall,
and `x` for execute (start install and uninstall).  You need to
install `clojure-mode` and `cider`.
